Growing Up
by Justin Tyler

"Youth was my excuse, but now that excuse is growing old." -Mike Posner
The artist of "Cooler Than Me" and "Took A Pill In Ibiza".
"Teardrops and Balloons" is an amazing, profound album of spoken poetry.

My entire life I've used age as my excuse.
I remember being 12, thinking I wasn't a teen yet so I didn't have to take school serious.
At 17 I was especially obnoxious and more risky cause I only had 1 more year until I was 18.
At 19 I still wasn't living the way I wanted. 
I told myself that I was still a teen so I would really grow up at 20.
At 20 I figured I was 21 soon, so it was okay for me to be an idiot for a while more.
I never said no to any drug and I justified my behaviors with my obsessive work ethic.

I woke up one morning in February of 2020 with a panicked thought. 

"Oh shit, I'm gonna be 25 this year"
"I was supposed to have done something by now"
"I was supposed to have a career I loved, my own business."
"I was supposed to be making $100,000 a year."
"I've wasted all my time away doing drugs and too many women."

This reality set in quite harshly my mind.
While in my troubled times I listened to 100's of hours of self-growth/development podcasts.
I was always too hight to actually apply them to myself.
I had a girl I was casually(at best) dating. 
I knew she had to go, I couldn't hold on to any of my vices any longer.
I told her we had to stop seeing eachother that week. 

It took months of letting go of everything I knew was bad for me.
It was extremely hard, I took every last pill I could, and snorted every line I had.
I had stockpiled months of them. 

Finally letting go of it all left me drained, tired, confused, and my mind was frazzled for a while to say the least. 
I thank God every day for the family I'm blessed with supporting me while I got back to normal.
Growing up was the best decision I've ever made. 
However I'm glad I did not do it any sooner, cause the knowledge and insight I gained from those experiences are invaluable.
