Caffeine to Crystal Meth, My Addiction Story
by Justin Tyler

All of my writings
http://www.JustinTylers.com

"Addiction is any repeated behavior that does not produce the results you want" 
-Paul Chek of the CHEK Institute

The problem I've found with myself and now observe all the time with other people, is our minds make us justify addiction so easily, the thought that we might have a problem that is potentially hurting our lives doesn't even occur to us until something drastic happens such as health problems or prison.

I've dealt with addiction in different ways my entire life.
Growing up I watched close family members deal with drug addiction and had them taken away from me because of it.
I refused to touch even caffeine or alcohol much until after highschool, because I was so wary and cautious that I was very likely to have extremely addictive tendencies.
I started taking caffeine and drinking coffee religously about 6 months into pursuing Crossfit because I was breaking down my body so bad my performance was starting to suffer.
I was 18 years old.

2014
I remember first taking preworkout from my friend / coach and I killed that workout so I went and bought more and continued to take it every day to workout harder. 
I would eventually up the dose to 2-3 times a day because I trained at least 3 times a day at that point.
I refused to take rest days.
My lack of performance was due to overtraining and not taking appropriate rest and recovery time.
I was using caffeine to bandaid the problem.

Thinking back I've always been hypersensitive to stimulants and alcohol but my tolerance would also go up extremely quick as well.
Caffeine only gave me the ability to add more stress to my already stressed to the max body.

This led to the most depressing winter I ever had, barely energy to go to the gym December 2014.
I remember taking a week off and then my coach was texting me wondering where I was so i got motivated again and got things going (I also would have been drinking no preworkout during that time so my tolerance reset)
This was the start of a vicious cycle.

2015
By August 2015 I felt my body breaking down again and was starting to realize I needed to get smarter with my training. 
However training Crossfit was an addiction as well so I easily justified overtraining and didn't lay off the gas pedal much.

At the end of 2015 I was introduced to another seemingly harmless drug that has extremely synergistic effects with caffeine.
It was taken by athletes sometimes to cut weight, or powerlifters to lift heavier and give them an extra boost on meet day.
It's known as adderalls step sibling.
This drug hides under the name of Bronkaid and a few other names that you can easily purchase it at your local pharmacy.
The ingredient that makes you high is called Ephedrine, which is sometimes used to make meth.


The first time I took it I immediately noticed the effects of it. 
it made my already obnoxious mouth never want to stop.
I would notice I felt a little off only after I stopped talking.
I hit some awesome personal records in the gym with it. 
I would take it maybe 2-3 times a week before a big personal record attempt.

Then the winter came but caffeine was getting me by along with my newfound progress in the gym thanks to Ephedrine.
I didn't notice much of my normal SAD kicking in.

I also made some new friends and started partying a bit.
I partied getting trashed for 2 weeks straight every night December 2015.
To balance myself and stay awake during the day I started taking Bronkaid / Ephedrine multiple times a day.
My friends were worried about me at this point, especially my best friend, but they knew better than to try giving opinions to me or tell me what to do.
I was not very good at listening to anybody about anything really.

2016
January 2016 my best friend dies. 
I didn't know how to cope and the stress of life broke me at this point.
I started taking ephedrine even more now while still drinking heavily because I wanted to show him how lean I could get.
Every workout as I was starving myself I would just think of him to keep me pushing hard as my physical and mental health was deteriorating. 
Even while drinking every other night I was able to drop 10 pounds in less than two weeks.

I also got a new girlfriend the following week of his death.
I then quit my passion in fitness and made plans to jump in the oilfield to make more money soon after that.
My life was stress filled chaos fueled by caffeine, ephedrine, and alcohol. 
This led to suicidal thoughts and actions by march of 2016.
It never even crossed my mind that ephedrine was causing me all my mental health problems
I didn't even need to justify it in my head.
It was as harmless as caffeine is what I thought.

Second half of 2016 I'm taking every drug I get my hands on.
I’m also still drinking heavily, and taking Molly(MDMA) every friday and saturday night.
I would take shots of alcohol before work some mornings to get through the day.
I kept coke lined out on my nightstand the night before so I could take it right away in the morning just to get out of bed.

October 2016 after battling suicidal thoughts for months now I have a mental breakdown and drive to my grandmas house. 
She asks if I ever thought about moving out of state and seeing what's out there or looking for better oppurtunities.
That was on a Sunday.
I packed all my things and fled the state that Friday.
I knew I would die if I stayed where I was at. 

I texted everyone I know down in the states to find somewhere to go. 
I figured worst case scenario I could be homeless in California.
I knew my work ethic would get me a job and a stable life eventually. 

Luckily I have grandparents who helped raise me in Idaho.
they offered me a place to stay while I redirected my life. 
I got to Idaho on my 21st birthday October 2016

2017
I continued with my ephedrine and drinking behaviors once I got to Idaho.
I hadn't actually took time to think or see what was happening to me or why.
January 2017 I had another mental breakdown and quit my new personal training job
(where I would sometimes take shots before training people).

I felt so guilty trying to help others while my own health was in the drain I quit the job on the spot one morning.
I identified that ephedrine was the problem I was having at this point.
I researched and found how toxic it was and how much it ruined other people's lives. 
I admitted my problem to my grandparents. 
I threw it out and took a month or two to recover and get my health back 

March 2017 I was figuring out my next move.
One day after playing some video games while visiting my family I snapped.
I couldn't stand sitting around any longer and needed to go do something.
I was drinking a stronger energy drink than usual at his point, a fruit punch rockstar instead of a venom. 
I said screw it in my head, I would rather suffer the consequences of drugs than waste my life away playing video games. 

I went straight to the pharmacy and bought two boxes of Bronkaid / Ephedrine and went to find my next venture.
I could get so much more done on Ephedrine (or so i thought)
(in reality it just made me impulsive to the max and make decisions faster than I could process them)

2018
I suffered through a lot of mental break downs and suicidal thoughts all through 2017 and 2018.
Thanks to the help of an on and off girl friend who went through hell and back for me, nothing severe happened. 

Until November 2018 when I landed in the ER while partying one night.
At this point I had to admit my problem again to my grandparents and girlfriend.
I spent a week barely able to get out of bed, I was walking death without ephedrine.
I got sick too after coming off and took about two weeks before I could even function for a full day or do anything even slightly productive.

2019
After my natural energy came back I slowly got back to my normal habits of working nonstop and the gym with any free time I had.
I didn't know what to do with my life and the gym and work was all I knew.
Of course this led into the same cycle and by February 2019 my body was hurting again and I could barely wake up for the gym before work in the morning.
This was unnacceptable to me and without work and the gym , since that was all I knew, I felt as though I had nothing.

Ephedrine was better than having nothing. 
So I hopped right back on it, except this time the high was barely there.
I felt it but it just felt like caffeine by itself now. 
But it still got me out of bed and continuing my meaningless lifestyle so that was okay with me.
To make up for the ephedrine not working how it used to I upped my caffeine to 800-1000mg a day. 
I also started taking mass amounts of Kratom every day to help stabilize me 

On the plus side I loved my new job and found meaning in life again and was learning alot. 
I fell in love with life again and no longer thought about suicide. 
However my addictions were still killing me at this point and I didn't know how to fix them. 

My addictions were leading me to miserable decisions all over the place.
I was in and out of relationships every other week with different girls and I was a wreck outside work.
I quit the gym cause I was becoming aware enough to know that it wasn't serving my purposes any longer.
I was becoming aware enough to know that I needed to get better and quit drinking and start figuring out a better life. 

So at one point 2019 I decided I was done with girls and alcohol.
I had some amazing girlfriends at this point that I let down and failed miserably. 
I wanted to be stable enough one day to have healthy and strong relationship and maybe even a kid.
I wanted to be a better man, be the man I always wanted to be growing up.
Be the person I was learning so much about, with spirituality and health and finances. 
But my addictions were messing it up.

So I decided to have one last night of drinking.
One last hoorah before I did whatever it takes to change my ways and my life for the better.
I hit up the girls in my phone and got trashed. 
I met Crystal that night. 

One last night of drinking turned into a year of Crystal Meth every single day.
I was under so much stress for 4 years at this point that when I first did a line of crystal I felt like like it was the first time I had taken a deep breath in my entire life.
The next day I was stress free, no worries about the gym, no worries about work.
I went and talked to couple friends and for the first time and for the first time in my life I felt like I could finally truly be myself.
I didn't care what others thought, I lost my ego, I just loved to work and help people.
I could control Crystal and as long as I didn't inject it or smoke it I would be fine. 

However after a few months things started to spiral.

It's not that addiction is so hard to break, in my experience it's that you don't even think you have one.
Addicition completely warped my mind into justifying Crystal and Ephedrine before that so easily.
"I'm a super nice person, I'm awesome at my job, I'm making good money, I even learned to cut my own hair(lol)"
The justifications started getting ridiculous. 

Eventually when I messed up two jobs and didn't have a place to live, couch surfing between girlfriends, reality crept in.
It wasn't until I was fully sober for a couple months was I able to realize I even had a problem. 

I was staying clean at my families house for months before my brain and thinking started to feel sober and normal again. 
I had a lot of brain fog and just reading felt extremely aggravating for me.
I was learning web development which was extremely difficult to even comprehend the basics or focus. 

Everything began coming full circle and I began a ton of self realization and awareness one day.
One day I was cleaning out my stuff when I found an ephedrine pill.
I was doing better with my mental clarity at this point and was curious how much better I could study now with it.
(somehow still didn't learn my lessons at this point I guess)

I felt almost nothing with the pill (if anything), and instead got into a big fight with my younger brother that morning, and ended up crying afterwards. 

Looking back it's like that was a last pill from God. 
A message to ensure I changed my ways forever and stayed healthy.
Because when I went back to my stuff to go through every last centimeter to make sure every last of those horrendous pills was gone, there was none.

One last pill from God to make me realize what had happened to me the last 5 years. 

I tear up as I finish writing this with gratitude to my brothers and sisters and family and ex girlfriends and friends and everyone who supported me as I went through hell the past 5 years. 

I've cried alot the past 6 months from relief and happiness that I'm back to myself again and able to live the life and be the person i've always wanted to. 

I've always known it was possible to get to this place after listening to hundreds of podcasts the past few years and learning from people such as; 

the Mindpump cast 
https://mindpumppodcast.com/

Paul Chek 
https://chekinstitute.com/podcast/

Lewis Howes
https://lewishowes.com/podcast/

Aubrey Marcus 
https://www.aubreymarcus.com/blogs/aubrey-marcus-podcast

Gary Vaynerchuk
https://www.garyvaynerchuk.com/podcast/

and Ben Greenfield among others
https://bengreenfieldfitness.com/

(I don't even touch caffeine anymore as I've found it toxic to me and after some research it looks to be toxic to many other people as well)
